.TH rho 1

.SH NAME
rho \- easy-to-{read,write,understand} semantic plain text markup language for Node

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rho
[\fB\-\-input\fR=\fIinput_file\fR | \fB\-i\fR \fIinput_file\fR]
.RS 4
[\fB\-\-output\fR=\fIoutput_file\fR | \fB\-o\fR \fIoutput_file\fR]
.RE
.RS 4
[\fB\-\-pretty\fR]
[\fB\-\-inline\fR]
[\fB\-\-stats\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR]
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rho
converts semantic plain text from \fIinput_file\fR (or \fIstdin\fR
if no input file is specified) into a valid semantic HTML markup which is
written into \fIoutput_file\fR (or \fIstdout\fR if no output file is specified).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-input =\fIinput_file\fR

Read plain text from specified \fIinput_file\fR. If no input file is
specified, reads from \fIstdin\fR.

Use pipes to consume output from another process, e.g.:

    cat myfile.txt | rho

When started in terminal without pipes or input file, \fBrho\fR waits for input
from \fIstdin\fR. In typical shells you should type your text and then press
\fBCtrl+D\fR to consume the input.

.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output =\fIoutput_file\fR

Writes HTML markup into specified \fIoutput_file\fR. If no output file is
specified, the markup is written into \fIstdout\fR.

.TP
.BR \-\-pretty

Nicely format and indent the resulting HTML markup. For performance reasons
this option is disabled by default, resulting in rather ugly markup.

.TP
.BR \-\-inline

Turn on inline mode: the whole input text is treated as a single sequence
of inline elements, no block-level elements (e.g. paragraphs, headings, lists, etc.)
are recognized.

.TP
.BR \-\-stats

Outputs some statistics to \fIstderr\fR: the number of characters in input text,
the number of characters in resulting markup and the time taken for rendering.

Use I/O redirection to output this information into the file:

    cat myfile.txt | rho --stats 2> stats.log

.TP
.BR \-\-version

Print the current version of \fBrho\fR and exit immediately.

.TP
.BR \-\-help

Display short usage cheatsheet and exit immediately.

.SH CONTRIBUTING

The source repository is hosted at GitHub:

    \fBhttps://github.com/inca/rho\fR

Patches and fork requests are welcome!

.SH BUGS

Please report your issues to:

    \fBhttps://github.com/inca/rho/issues\fR

.SH LICENSE

\fBrho\fR is freely distributed under MIT-like license.

    \fBhttps://github.com/inca/rho/tree/master/LICENSE.md\fR

2013 (c) Boris Okunskiy <boris@okunskiy.name>

